Welcome to Civ II Fantastic Worlds!

----IMPORTANT: Read This----

When you install the scenarios, the files for each are put into separate
directories. They absolutely MUST stay that way. If you move files around,
there's no telling what might happen, and Customer Service might not be able
to fix it.

**** Do not move the scenario files.****

The same goes for any scenario games you save. When you save a scenario game
(even if you do so using the Autosave function), that save file automatically
goes into the directory with that scenario. When the time comes to load the file,
look for it in the scenario directory, not in the normal Civilization II directory.

#For example, if you play the Atlantis scenario halfway through, then save,
the computer will store the save file in the directory scenario\atlantis. If you
subsequently move the file elsewhere and then restart the game from that save
bad things will happen. 

This brings up one more important rule. If you copy a scenario save file to
use with Civ II on another computer, make sure that you copy the file into
the correct scenario directory.

----Playing----

Once the set-up is complete, the scenarios are ready to play. 
To start:

(1) If you want to see and hear the uninstalled video portions 
    of the game, make sure that the Civ II Fantastic Worlds
    CD-ROM is in the drive. (Remember, if you did not install
    the Recommended files when you originally installed 
    Civilization II, there will be no sound effects regardless
    of whether the CD is in the drive. There will be some music.)
    Note: The Fantastic Worlds CD-ROM intentionally excludes the
    World Wonders and Heralds videos for the sake of scenario
    continuity.  If these are desired, the original Civilization II
    disc should be in the drive when the game is loaded. Keep in mind,
    however, that these videos will no longer accurately describe any
    of the Heralds and Wonders that have been changed for a scenario.
  

(2) If it is not already running, start Windows.

(3) Now simply double-click the Civilization II icon (or click
    Civ2 on the Windows '95 Start menu) to start the game.

----A Quick Review----

Although every Civilization II player has surely read and reread
the manual several times, your mind might have wandered a little
over the brief mentions of scenarios. Just in case, let's go through
a quick rehash of how you load scenarios for play and what it means
to win one.

----Loading a Scenario----

The first menu you see when the game starts up doesn't have a name.

* Click the radio button next to Begin Scenario.
* Click on the OK button.

Now you need to choose the scenario you want to play. The selection
window works exactly like a typical Windows file selection window.

* First, double-click on the directory named scenario.
* Next, double-click on the directory of the scenario you want.
* Finally, double-click on the name of the scenario file itself.

The MicroProse scenarios are each in a separate directory:

Scenario			Directory	File
----------------------------------------------------------
The Age of Reptiles		Dinosaur	dinosaur.scn
Atlantis			Atlantis	atlantis.scn
Ice Planet			Iceplnet	iceplnet.scn
Mars Now!			Mars		mars.scn
Master of Magic, Jr.		Momjr		momjr.scn
Master of Orion, Jr.		Moojr		moojr.scn
The Mythic History of Midgard	Midgard		midgard.scn
Thew New World			Newworld	newworld.scn
Samurai				Samurai		samurai.scn
The World of Jules Verne	Verne		verne.scn
X-COM: Assault			Xcom		xcom.scn

The Best of the Net scenarios are all in sub-directories of the
directory named BestNet2:

Scenario			Directory	File
-----------------------------------------------------------
Battle of the Sexes		Battle		battle.scn
Bears at Play			Bears		bears.scn
Civ-Life!			Bio		bio.scn
Hidden				Hidden		hidden.scn
Mammoth				Mammoth		mammoth.scn
Paradise			Paradise	paradise.scn
Santa is Coming			Santa		santa.scn
USA 2010			USA2010		usa2010.scn


Once you've chosen a scenario, you see the introductory text, which
explains the situation you're getting yourself into. Click OK when
you've finished reading it. Now, you go through the normal decisions
for the beginning of a Civilization II game.

(1) Choose the civilization you want to lead. Every scenario includes
    empires that are interesting to play - and occasionally some that
    are not. Some tribes are only included to spice things up, and
    weren't designed to be player-controlled. The recommended tribes
    are mentioned in the introduction and the manual.

(2) Select a Difficulty Level. The default is generally Deity, since we
    assume scenario players are already somewhat experienced.

(3) Enter the name under which you rule.

(4) Choose the gender you want other civilizations' emissaries to use
    when referring to your ruler.

After that, the scenario begins in earnest.

----Objectives and Winning----

In some scenarios, scoring and winning are the same as in any normal game.
However, some scenarios use the Objectives system instead. In this case,
success and failure are measured in terms of who has how many objective cities
(and sometimes wonders) under their control at the end of the game.

One civilization in each Objectives scenario is considered the protagonist
nation. It's always the same nation (noted in the introductory text), regardless
of which one you choose to play. The designer of the scenario has marked certain
cities as objectives. (To tell which cities are objectives, select Find City
from the Kingdom menu.) Some cities are Major Objectives; these count for 3 times
as much as normal objectives.

The only object of the scenario is to capture and hold as many objectives as you
can. This and this alone determines the outcome. If some of the Wonders of the
World are also considered objectives, each objective wonder you capture also
counts toward the total.

There are four possible results of any Objective scenario. The number of
objectives required for each is a pre-set characteristic of the scenario. The
protagonist nation can:

   Win a Decisive Victory,
   Win a Marginal Victory,
   Suffer a Marginal Defeat, or
   Suffer a Decisive Defeat.

Whatever the outcome for the protagonist, every other civilization gets the
corresponding, opposite result. Thus, for example, if you're the protagonist
and you win a Marginal Victory, all your opponents get a Marginal Defeat.

----When You're Done----

When you quit or finish a scenario, you return to that unnamed first menu.
You can begin another scenario (or a regular game) if you wish. If you prefer
to leave Civilization II, click Cancel.

----Last Minute Updates----

(1) The advice given to you by the High Council is almost never relevant or
    correct during a scenario game. Ignore it.

(2) The Civilopedia has been updated to reflect the changes for each MicroProse
    scenario. The updated Civilopedias, however, are text only.

(3) A complete discussion of the Scenario Macro Language is included in the rules
    manual.

(4) After you install the scenarios, you might notice a new file in your civ2
    directory -- 'civ2orig.exe'. This is a backup copy of the original civ2
    executable. The scenario installation copies an updated version into this
    directory, but saves the original as a backup.

(5) The new civ2 executable file includes all of the previously posted patches
    for the original civ2 (and more).

(6) The Jules Verne and Midgard scenarios each have special victory conditions.
    However, the game program does not recognize them and lets you contimue play 
    as if nothing has happened. The only announcement of victory is made in a 
    text message that appears on screen. You should voluntarily stop play at this 
    point and accept your win or loss.
     
(7) We recommend that, if you wish to work with the game macro, you do so via the 
     Events Editor provided with the game. If you insist on working directly with
     the events.txt file, be warned. Calling up a saved game after making a change
     in the events.txt file can cause the game to crash. To fix this, you write the
     following command from the DOS prompt - 
     
     c:\mps\civ2\delevent c:\mps\civ2\scenario\xxxxx\yyyyy.sav
     xxxxx = name of appropriate scenario, yyyyy.sav = name of guilty saved game file
     
     If you have stored your civ2 game somewhere other than the default location 
     stated above, you will need to substitute the proper path to your civ2 and 
     scenario directories. Whatever message you see, the saved game should now load
     properly.
     
--END--
